.TH RIPD 1 "August 1999" "Zebra" "Version 0.77"

.SH NAME
ripd \- a RIP routing engine for use with Zebra

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ripd
[
.B \-dhrv
]
[
.B \-f config-file
]
[
.B \-P port-number
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ripd 
is a routing component that supports the 
.B zebra
route engine.
.B ripd 
supports RIPv1, RIPv2, and so forth.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-daemon\fR
Runs in daemon mode, forking and exiting from tty.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-config-file \fR\fIconfig-file\fR
Specifies the config file to use for startup. If not specified this option will likely default to \fB\fI/usr/local/etc/ripd.conf\fR.
 
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
A brief message.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-vty_port \fR\fIport-number\fR 
Specify the port that the ripd VTY will listen on. This defaults to
2602, as specified in \fB\fI/etc/services\fR.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-retain\fR 
When the program terminates, retain routes added by \fBripd\fR.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the version and exit.


.SH COMMANDS

\fB router rip \fR
\fB rip version [1|2] \fR

\fB network [NETWORK] \fR
\fB no network [NETWORK] \fR

\fB network [IFNAME] \fR
\fB no network [IFNAME] \fR

\fB neighbor [IPADDRESS] \fR
\fB no neighbor [IPADDRESS] \fR

\fB redistribute static \fR
\fB no redistribute static \fR

\fB redistribute connected \fR
\fB no redistribute connected \fR

\fB route [NETWORK] \fR
\fB no route [NETWORK] \fR

\fB timers basic [UPDATE-INTERVAL] [INVALID] [HOLDDOWN] [FLUSH] \fR
\fB no timers basic \fR

\fB ip rip send version [VERSION] \fR
\fB ip rip receive version [VERSION] \fR

\fB distribute-list [ACCESS-LIST] [in|out] [IFNAME] \fR

\fB show ip rip \fR
\fB show debugging rip \fR

\fB debug rip \fR
\fB debug rip events \fR
\fB debug rip packet \fR
\fB debug rip zebra \fR



.SH FILES

.TP
.BI /usr/local/sbin/ripd
The default location of the 
.B ripd
binary.

.TP
.BI /usr/local/etc/ripd.conf
The default location of the 
.B ripd
config file.

.TP
.BI $(PWD)/ripd.log 
If the 
.B ripd
process is config'd to output logs to a file, then you will find this
file in the directory where you started \fBripd\fR.


.SH WARNING
This man page is intended as a quick reference for command line options, and for config file commands. The definitive document is the Info file \fBzebra\fR.


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The ripd process may log to standard output, to a VTY, to a log file, or through syslog to the system logs. 
.B ripd
supports many debugging options, see the Info file, or the source for details.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
References to other related man pages:

ripngd(1), ospfd(1), ospf6d(1), bgpd(1), zebra(1)



.SH BUGS
.B ripd
eats bugs for breakfast. If you have food for the maintainers try 
.BI <bug-zebra@gnu.org>


.SH AUTHOR[S]
See <\fBwww.zebra.org\fR>, or the Info file for an accurate list of authors.

